Q1. What is the Probability density function?
The Probability Density Function (PDF) is a fundamental concept in probability and statistics. It is used to describe the probability distribution of a continuous random variable. In simpler terms, it tells us how likely different values are to occur for that random variable

Q2. What are the types of Probability distribution?
Discrete Probability Distributions: Discrete probability distributions are associated with discrete random variables, which take on a countable set of distinct values. In other words, the random variable can only assume specific, separate values
Continuous Probability Distributions: Continuous probability distributions are associated with continuous random variables, which can take on an uncountable range of values within a given interval. These distributions are defined using probability density functions (PDFs)
Q3. Write a Python function to calculate the probability density function of a normal distribution with given mean and standard deviation at a given point.
Q4. What are the properties of Binomial distribution? Give two examples of events where binomial
distribution can be applied.
1.	Fixed Number of Trials (n): The Binomial distribution is applicable when there is a fixed number of trials, denoted as 'n'. Each trial is independent of the others, meaning the outcome of one trial does not influence the outcome of another.
2.	Two Possible Outcomes: In each trial, there are only two possible outcomes: success (usually denoted by 'S') with probability 'p' and failure (usually denoted by 'F') with probability 'q', where 'q' is equal to (1 - p).
3.	Constant Probability: The probability of success (p) remains constant across all trials. This is often referred to as the assumption of "constant probability of success."
4.	Discrete and Countable: The Binomial distribution deals with a discrete random variable, which means the number of successes must be countable and cannot take on intermediate values between whole numbers.
Two examples of events where the Binomial distribution can be applied are:
1.	Coin Toss: Suppose you flip a fair coin (with heads as success) 10 times. The Binomial distribution can be used to calculate the probability of getting a certain number of heads (successes) out of the 10 flips.
2.	Drug Efficacy: In a clinical trial, a new drug is tested on a group of patients, and the success is defined as the number of patients who show improvement in their condition. The Binomial distribution can be used to calculate the probability of a specific number of successful outcomes in the trial.


Q5. Generate a random sample of size 1000 from a binomial distribution with probability of success 0.4 and plot a histogram of the results using matplotlib.
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as mp
probability=0.4
attempts=1000
results=np.random.binomial(n=attempts,p=probability,size=attempts)
mp.hist(results,attempts,alpha=0.8)
mp.show()

Q6. Write a Python function to calculate the cumulative distribution function of a Poisson distribution with given mean at a given point.
Q7. How Binomial distribution different from Poisson distribution?
Number of Trials:
•	Binomial Distribution: The Binomial distribution is used when there is a fixed number of independent trials, denoted as 'n'
•	Poisson Distribution: The Poisson distribution, on the other hand, is used when we are interested in modeling the number of events that occur in a fixed interval of time or space. It is not based on a fixed number of trials but instead describes the frequency of events occurring in a continuous or discrete time frame.
Probability of Success:
•	Binomial Distribution: In the Binomial distribution, the probability of success (p) remains constant across all trials. Each trial is independent, and the probability of success is the same in each trial.
•	Poisson Distribution: In the Poisson distribution, the probability of an event occurring in a fixed interval is constant, denoted by 'λ' (lambda). This parameter represents the average rate of events occurring in that interval.
Probability of Success:
•	Binomial Distribution: In the Binomial distribution, the probability of success (p) remains constant across all trials. Each trial is independent, and the probability of success is the same in each trial.
•	Poisson Distribution: In the Poisson distribution, the probability of an event occurring in a fixed interval is constant, denoted by 'λ' (lambda). This parameter represents the average rate of events occurring in that interval.
Applicability:
•	Binomial Distribution: The Binomial distribution is often used in situations where there are a fixed number of trials with two possible outcomes, such as coin flips, success/failure experiments, or the number of defective items in a sample.
•	Poisson Distribution: The Poisson distribution is commonly applied to model the number of rare events, such as the number of arrivals at a service center, the number of customer complaints per hour, or the number of accidents in a specific area over time.

Q8. Generate a random sample of size 1000 from a Poisson distribution with mean 5 and calculate the sample mean and variance.
time=5
sample=1000
random=np.random.poisson(lam=time,size=sample)

expected =np.mean(random)
variance=np.var(random)
print(expected)
print(variance)
Q9. How mean and variance are related in Binomial distribution and Poisson distribution?
Binomial Distribution: For a Binomial distribution with parameters n (number of trials) and p (probability of success in each trial), the mean  and variance are related as follows:
mean=n⋅p 
variance=n⋅p⋅(1−p)
Poisson Distribution: For a Poisson distribution with parameter lambda (the average rate of events occurring in a fixed interval), the mean  and variance  are related as follows:
mean=lambda
variance=lambda

Q10. In normal distribution with respect to mean position, where does the least frequent data appear?
in a normal distribution, the least frequent data points appear in the tails, farthest away from the mean, whether it's a standard normal distribution or a normal distribution with non-zero mean and standard deviation. The frequency of data points gradually decreases as we move away from the mean towards the tails of the distribution.
